README.md, before:

<!--lint disable awesome-git-repo-age double-link -->

# Awesome Kurds [![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)

This is a curated list of awesome Kurds working in the IT industry to meet and
follow.

Feel free to follow [the contribution guidelines](.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) to
add other awesome Kurds, including you!

### Contents

- [Software Development](#software-development)
- [UI/UX](#uiux)
- [Cybersecurity](#cybersecurity)
- [Networking](#networking)
- [Data Science and AI](#data-science-and-ai)
- [Project Management](#project-management)
- [Cloud Architecture and System Design](#cloud-architecture-and-system-design)

## Software Development

- [Abdulbasit Salah](https://github.com/abdulbasit-dev): PHP, Laravel, Node, API, JavaScript, React, Vue
- [Abdulmajeed Jaafer](https://github.com/Abdulmajeed98)
- [Ahmad Saman](https://twitter.com/ahmadweisi): React, Next, Node, JavaScript, API
- [Ahmed](https://twitter.com/rockweII_): Ruby, Rails, Hotwire, Elixir, Phoenix, PostgreSQL
- [Ahmad Nihmet](https://twitter.com/AhmadNihmet)
- [Ahmad A. Duhoki](https://github.com/AhmadDuhoki)
- [Ahmad Abdulkhaliq](https://twitter.com/AhmadAbdulkhal3)
- [Ahmed Abdullah](https://github.com/Ahmad-Qadir): Node, API, NoSQL, Flutter
- [Ahmad Soran](https://github.com/ahmadsoran)
- [Ahmad Saeed](https://github.com/AhmadSaeed96)
- [Akam Foad](https://twitter.com/AkamFoad): React, Node, API, TypeScript, Full-stack, Web
- [Akar Mohammed](https://github.com/AkarM13): JavaScript, Node, React, Tailwind, Nest, MongoDB
- [Alan Hilal](https://github.com/AlanHilal)
- [Ali A. Koye](https://twitter.com/Ali_A_Koye)
- [Amanj Adnan](https://twitter.com/AmanjGargary): Ruby, Rails, PostgreSQL
- [Ameer Hameed](https://twitter.com/ameermirawdeli)
- [Ara Arsalan](https://github.com/YouCanCallMeAra)
- [Aram Malabe](https://twitter.com/aram_malabe)
- [Aram Rafeq](https://twitter.com/AramRafeq): Full-stack, Node, React, SQL, API, PHP, Java
- [Aram Younis](https://github.com/aramyunis)
- [Aran Fatih](https://github.com/aranfatih)
- [Areyan](https://github.com/KUMachine)
- [Ari Karim](https://twitter.com/Ari_Karim_)
- [Arin Faraj](https://twitter.com/ArinFaraj)
- [Aro Dana](https://github.com/arokurd)
- [Ayman Sabri](https://twitter.com/krdayman)
- [Ayub Abdullah](https://github.com/ayubabdullah): Node, Express, Nest, API, JavaScript, React, MySQL, MongoDB
- [Aza Kamala](https://twitter.com/AzaKamala)
- [Azher Taimur](https://twitter.com/Freedom_Coder)
- [Azhi Osman](https://github.com/Azhi-Othman)
- [Barez Azad](https://github.com/barezazad): Linux, Docker, CI/CD, Go, Angular, C#
- [Bilend Mohammed](https://twitter.com/bilendm)
- [Binar](https://github.com/binar1)
- [Brusk Awat](https://twitter.com/BruskAwat)
- [Cali](https://github.com/salimhamad)
- [Chra Othman](https://github.com/chra-O)
- [Chenar Farhad](https://github.com/chenar-farhad)
- [Chenar Ismael ](https://github.com/TheChenar)
- [Daban Sadiq](https://twitter.com/DabanSadiq)
- [Darvan Shvan](https://twitter.com/DarvanShvan)
- [Dashty Frya](https://twitter.com/DashtyFrya): React, Next, Vue, JavaScript, Laravel, Figma
- [Deni Kader](https://github.com/denikader)
- [Dolan](https://twitter.com/dolanskurd): Python, Node, Back-end, JavaScript, TypeScript
- [Dyako Sharifi](https://github.com/syronz)
- [Dyary Raoof](https://github.com/DyaryRaoof): Full-stack, JavaScript, React, Ruby, Rails, Node, Flutter
- [Emir Muhammadzadeh](https://www.linkedin.com/in/muhammadzadeh): Android, Nest, Laravel
- [Gashbin Kanaby](https://github.com/gashben)
- [Goran Mustafa](https://twitter.com/Goran__mustafa)
- [Hama Dler](https://github.com/HamaDler)
- [Handren Muhammad](https://twitter.com/Handren96)
- [Haryad Rahim](https://github.com/hariiad)
- [Hedi M. Sharif](https://github.com/HediMuhamad): React, Node, Javascript, Java
- [Hema Omer](https://github.com/h3ma209)
- [Hero Mohammed](https://github.com/herormo)
- [Hewr Srood](https://twitter.com/hewr_srood)
- [Hezha Amen](https://twitter.com/hezhamen): React, Node, Dart, JavaScript
- [Hozan Saeed](https://github.com/hozan7): Node, React, API
- [Ismail Ahmed](https://github.com/ismail-ahm3d): Android, Kotlin, Java
- [Lawen](https://github.com/lawen-coder)
- [Lavin Salah](https://github.com/lavin67)
- [Lhon Rafaat](https://github.com/LhonRafaat)
- [Kodo Yousif](https://twitter.com/kodo_koye): React, Node, Electron, SQL, MongoDB
- [Miran K. Sabir](https://twitter.com/mira_01001110): Android, Flutter, JavaScript, Kotlin, Dart, Java
- [Mahamad Esmail](https://github.com/mahamaad)
- [Mohammed Hussein](https://github.com/TheKurdishProgrammer): Back-end, .NET, C#, Database, Flutter, Android, Java
- [Muhammad Azeez](https://twitter.com/@mhmd_azeez): .NET, C#, SQL, API
- [Muhammad Ballak](https://twitter.com/MuhammedBallak)
- [Muhammad Sarbast](https://twitter.com/Muhamme28815866)
- [Meer Bahadin](https://github.com/meerbahadin): React, Typescript, Node, Deno, Next, SQL, MongoDB
- [Nashwan Abdullah](https://github.com/codenashwan)
- [Niyaz Irfan](https://github.com/Niyaz-Dev12): Front-end, React, Node, JavaScript
- [Omer Tariq](https://github.com/omer-github93)
- [Perwiz Kazemi](https://www.linkedin.com/in/parviz-kazemi-8987b170/): Nest, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, Elasticsearch, Redis, Docker
- [Ranj Jalal](https://github.com/RanjDev)
- [Rawa Hamid](https://github.com/rawahamid): Laravel, PHP, Vue, React
- [Rawand Kamal](https://github.com/RawandDev): Front-end, React, Next, JavaScript
- [Rawand Rebwar](https://twitter.com/R4wand)
- [Rebaz Raouf](https://github.com/rebaz94): Dart, Flutter, Kotlin, Java, Swift, TypeScript, MySQL, Firebase, PostgreSQL
- [Rebin Qadir](https://twitter.com/rebiiin)
- [Rekar Botany](https://github.com/RekarBotany)
- [Revan Sarbast](https://github.com/Revan99): React, Node, SQL, MongoDB
- [Roj Serbest](https://github.com/roj1512): Go, Deno, TypeScript, Telegram
- [Suvi Shahoyi](https://twitter.com/suuuvi99): Flutter, Dart, Java, C#, JavaScript, Figma, Adobe Xd
- [Sabat](https://github.com/Sabat96)
- [Shamlo](https://github.com/shammlo): JavaScript, TypeScript, React, Next, Node, Express, MongoDB
- [Shelgir](https://github.com/Shelgir)
- [Shakar Bakr](https://twitter.com/shakar__)
- [Shkar Taib](https://twitter.com/Shkarface)
- [Shabang](https://github.com/shabang99)
- [Shahab Zebari](https://www.linkedin.com/in/shahabzebari): Laravel, Agile, Vue
- [Shoxan Osman](https://github.com/shoxosman)
- [Syar](https://github.com/syar1122)
- [Vazhin Tayeb](https://twitter.com/vazhinn)
- [Wali](https://github.com/kurdi-dev): Next, Django, Flutter, Strapi, Express, CodeIgniter, Laravel
- [Xaliss Pasha](https://twitter.com/XalissPasha)
- [Yousif Jasm](https://github.com/joseph625)
- [Zardasht Rwandzi](https://www.linkedin.com/in/zardasht-rwandzi-86a883217)
- [Zhino](https://github.com/zhino97)
- [Zhir Taha](https://github.com/zhirtaha)

## UI/UX

- [Akar Mohammed](https://github.com/AkarM13): Adobe XD, Figma
- [Arkan A. Ahmed](https://www.behance.net/arkan-a-ahmed): Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Xd, Figma
- [Ayman Sabri](https://twitter.com/krdayman)
- [Ahmed Safaa](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ahmed1safaa)
- [Chenar Ismael ](https://github.com/TheChenar)
- [Suvi Shahoyi](https://twitter.com/suuuvi99): Flutter, Dart, Java, C#, JavaScript, Figma, Adobe Xd
- [Hema Omer](https://github.com/h3ma209)
- [Hemn Ahmedi Kanigulzar](https://github.com/kanigulzar): Adobe Xd, Figma
- [Hezha Amen](https://twitter.com/hezhamen)
- [Muhammed K. Sabir](https://behance.net/mohamadkamal8)
- [Wali](https://github.com/kurdi-dev): Adobe Xd, Figma
- [Yaseen A. Yaseen](https://www.instagram.com/yasin.dev): Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Xd, Adobe Photoshop, InVision, Figma
- [Simin](https://twitter.com/SiminDev): Front-end, React, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Adobe Photoshop, Figma

## Cybersecurity

- [Adnan Anwar](https://twitter.com/AdanAnwar15)
- [Ayman Sabri](https://twitter.com/krdayman)
- [Chenar Ismael](https://github.com/TheChenar)
- [Sharo Karwan](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sharo-karwan-690b0576): Azure, Kaspersky, Acronis, Barracuda, Palo Alto
- [Muhammed Naqshabandi](https://twitter.com/zertux6)
- [Wali](https://github.com/kurdi-dev): Forcepoint, Infoblox, Palo Alto, Linux
- [Xaliss Pasha](https://twitter.com/XalissPasha)

## Networking

- [Ahmed Abdullah](https://github.com/Ahmad-Qadir): MikroTik, Cisco, FortiNet
- [Ahmed Jalal](https://twitter.com/EngAhmedJalal1)
- [Edris Muhammed](https://twitter.com/Edris__Muhammed)
- [Muhammmed Burhan](https://github.com/Muhammed-Burhan)
- [Muhamad Tariq](https://twitter.com/muhamadtariq01)
- [Othman A. Abdullah](https://twitter.com/Othman_Mzori)
- [Samal Samaly](https://twitter.com/Samalsamaly)

## Data Science and AI

- [Aza Kamala](https://twitter.com/AzaKamala)
- [Abdulbasit Zahir](https://twitter.com/Hamza_X98)
- [Diween Hawezy](https://twitter.com/DiweenHawezy)
- [Dolan](https://twitter.com/dolanskurd): Python
- [Ebdulmomen Ahmed](https://twitter.com/Ebdulmomen1)
- [Keyo Zêbarî](https://twitter.com/KeyoChali)
- [Layik Hama](https://twitter.com/layik)
- [Sina Ahmadi](https://twitter.com/sina_ahm)

## Project Management

- [Emir Muhammadzadeh](https://www.linkedin.com/in/muhammadzadeh)
- [Hakar Saber](https://twitter.com/HakarSaber)
- [Rawaz Salih](https://www.linkedin.com/in/rawazsalih): Agile, Scrum
- [Rebaz Omer](https://twitter.com/Randoz)

## Cloud Architecture and System Design

- [Arya Jemo](https://www.aryajemo.com)

## Graphic Designers

- Be the first to join!

Commit message:

Adding Samrand Haji
Adding IT Management as a category and adding Samrand Haji

README.md, after:

<!--lint disable awesome-git-repo-age double-link -->

# Awesome Kurds [![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)

This is a curated list of awesome Kurds working in the IT industry to meet and
follow.

Feel free to follow [the contribution guidelines](.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) to
add other awesome Kurds, including you!

### Contents

- [Software Development](#software-development)
- [UI/UX](#uiux)
- [Cybersecurity](#cybersecurity)
- [Networking](#networking)
- [Data Science and AI](#data-science-and-ai)
- [Project Management](#project-management)
- [Cloud Architecture and System Design](#cloud-architecture-and-system-design)
- [IT Management](#it-management)

## Software Development

- [Abdulbasit Salah](https://github.com/abdulbasit-dev): PHP, Laravel, Node, API, JavaScript, React, Vue
- [Abdulmajeed Jaafer](https://github.com/Abdulmajeed98)
- [Ahmad Saman](https://twitter.com/ahmadweisi): React, Next, Node, JavaScript, API
- [Ahmed](https://twitter.com/rockweII_): Ruby, Rails, Hotwire, Elixir, Phoenix, PostgreSQL
- [Ahmad Nihmet](https://twitter.com/AhmadNihmet)
- [Ahmad A. Duhoki](https://github.com/AhmadDuhoki)
- [Ahmad Abdulkhaliq](https://twitter.com/AhmadAbdulkhal3)
- [Ahmed Abdullah](https://github.com/Ahmad-Qadir): Node, API, NoSQL, Flutter
- [Ahmad Soran](https://github.com/ahmadsoran)
- [Ahmad Saeed](https://github.com/AhmadSaeed96)
- [Akam Foad](https://twitter.com/AkamFoad): React, Node, API, TypeScript, Full-stack, Web
- [Akar Mohammed](https://github.com/AkarM13): JavaScript, Node, React, Tailwind, Nest, MongoDB
- [Alan Hilal](https://github.com/AlanHilal)
- [Ali A. Koye](https://twitter.com/Ali_A_Koye)
- [Amanj Adnan](https://twitter.com/AmanjGargary): Ruby, Rails, PostgreSQL
- [Ameer Hameed](https://twitter.com/ameermirawdeli)
- [Ara Arsalan](https://github.com/YouCanCallMeAra)
- [Aram Malabe](https://twitter.com/aram_malabe)
- [Aram Rafeq](https://twitter.com/AramRafeq): Full-stack, Node, React, SQL, API, PHP, Java
- [Aram Younis](https://github.com/aramyunis)
- [Aran Fatih](https://github.com/aranfatih)
- [Areyan](https://github.com/KUMachine)
- [Ari Karim](https://twitter.com/Ari_Karim_)
- [Arin Faraj](https://twitter.com/ArinFaraj)
- [Aro Dana](https://github.com/arokurd)
- [Ayman Sabri](https://twitter.com/krdayman)
- [Ayub Abdullah](https://github.com/ayubabdullah): Node, Express, Nest, API, JavaScript, React, MySQL, MongoDB
- [Aza Kamala](https://twitter.com/AzaKamala)
- [Azher Taimur](https://twitter.com/Freedom_Coder)
- [Azhi Osman](https://github.com/Azhi-Othman)
- [Barez Azad](https://github.com/barezazad): Linux, Docker, CI/CD, Go, Angular, C#
- [Bilend Mohammed](https://twitter.com/bilendm)
- [Binar](https://github.com/binar1)
- [Brusk Awat](https://twitter.com/BruskAwat)
- [Cali](https://github.com/salimhamad)
- [Chra Othman](https://github.com/chra-O)
- [Chenar Farhad](https://github.com/chenar-farhad)
- [Chenar Ismael ](https://github.com/TheChenar)
- [Daban Sadiq](https://twitter.com/DabanSadiq)
- [Darvan Shvan](https://twitter.com/DarvanShvan)
- [Dashty Frya](https://twitter.com/DashtyFrya): React, Next, Vue, JavaScript, Laravel, Figma
- [Deni Kader](https://github.com/denikader)
- [Dolan](https://twitter.com/dolanskurd): Python, Node, Back-end, JavaScript, TypeScript
- [Dyako Sharifi](https://github.com/syronz)
- [Dyary Raoof](https://github.com/DyaryRaoof): Full-stack, JavaScript, React, Ruby, Rails, Node, Flutter
- [Emir Muhammadzadeh](https://www.linkedin.com/in/muhammadzadeh): Android, Nest, Laravel
- [Gashbin Kanaby](https://github.com/gashben)
- [Goran Mustafa](https://twitter.com/Goran__mustafa)
- [Hama Dler](https://github.com/HamaDler)
- [Handren Muhammad](https://twitter.com/Handren96)
- [Haryad Rahim](https://github.com/hariiad)
- [Hedi M. Sharif](https://github.com/HediMuhamad): React, Node, Javascript, Java
- [Hema Omer](https://github.com/h3ma209)
- [Hero Mohammed](https://github.com/herormo)
- [Hewr Srood](https://twitter.com/hewr_srood)
- [Hezha Amen](https://twitter.com/hezhamen): React, Node, Dart, JavaScript
- [Hozan Saeed](https://github.com/hozan7): Node, React, API
- [Ismail Ahmed](https://github.com/ismail-ahm3d): Android, Kotlin, Java
- [Lawen](https://github.com/lawen-coder)
- [Lavin Salah](https://github.com/lavin67)
- [Lhon Rafaat](https://github.com/LhonRafaat)
- [Kodo Yousif](https://twitter.com/kodo_koye): React, Node, Electron, SQL, MongoDB
- [Miran K. Sabir](https://twitter.com/mira_01001110): Android, Flutter, JavaScript, Kotlin, Dart, Java
- [Mahamad Esmail](https://github.com/mahamaad)
- [Mohammed Hussein](https://github.com/TheKurdishProgrammer): Back-end, .NET, C#, Database, Flutter, Android, Java
- [Muhammad Azeez](https://twitter.com/@mhmd_azeez): .NET, C#, SQL, API
- [Muhammad Ballak](https://twitter.com/MuhammedBallak)
- [Muhammad Sarbast](https://twitter.com/Muhamme28815866)
- [Meer Bahadin](https://github.com/meerbahadin): React, Typescript, Node, Deno, Next, SQL, MongoDB
- [Nashwan Abdullah](https://github.com/codenashwan)
- [Niyaz Irfan](https://github.com/Niyaz-Dev12): Front-end, React, Node, JavaScript
- [Omer Tariq](https://github.com/omer-github93)
- [Perwiz Kazemi](https://www.linkedin.com/in/parviz-kazemi-8987b170/): Nest, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, Elasticsearch, Redis, Docker
- [Ranj Jalal](https://github.com/RanjDev)
- [Rawa Hamid](https://github.com/rawahamid): Laravel, PHP, Vue, React
- [Rawand Kamal](https://github.com/RawandDev): Front-end, React, Next, JavaScript
- [Rawand Rebwar](https://twitter.com/R4wand)
- [Rebaz Raouf](https://github.com/rebaz94): Dart, Flutter, Kotlin, Java, Swift, TypeScript, MySQL, Firebase, PostgreSQL
- [Rebin Qadir](https://twitter.com/rebiiin)
- [Rekar Botany](https://github.com/RekarBotany)
- [Revan Sarbast](https://github.com/Revan99): React, Node, SQL, MongoDB
- [Roj Serbest](https://github.com/roj1512): Go, Deno, TypeScript, Telegram
- [Suvi Shahoyi](https://twitter.com/suuuvi99): Flutter, Dart, Java, C#, JavaScript, Figma, Adobe Xd
- [Sabat](https://github.com/Sabat96)
- [Shamlo](https://github.com/shammlo): JavaScript, TypeScript, React, Next, Node, Express, MongoDB
- [Shelgir](https://github.com/Shelgir)
- [Shakar Bakr](https://twitter.com/shakar__)
- [Shkar Taib](https://twitter.com/Shkarface)
- [Shabang](https://github.com/shabang99)
- [Shahab Zebari](https://www.linkedin.com/in/shahabzebari): Laravel, Agile, Vue
- [Shoxan Osman](https://github.com/shoxosman)
- [Syar](https://github.com/syar1122)
- [Vazhin Tayeb](https://twitter.com/vazhinn)
- [Wali](https://github.com/kurdi-dev): Next, Django, Flutter, Strapi, Express, CodeIgniter, Laravel
- [Xaliss Pasha](https://twitter.com/XalissPasha)
- [Yousif Jasm](https://github.com/joseph625)
- [Zardasht Rwandzi](https://www.linkedin.com/in/zardasht-rwandzi-86a883217)
- [Zhino](https://github.com/zhino97)
- [Zhir Taha](https://github.com/zhirtaha)

## UI/UX

- [Akar Mohammed](https://github.com/AkarM13): Adobe XD, Figma
- [Arkan A. Ahmed](https://www.behance.net/arkan-a-ahmed): Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Xd, Figma
- [Ayman Sabri](https://twitter.com/krdayman)
- [Ahmed Safaa](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ahmed1safaa)
- [Chenar Ismael ](https://github.com/TheChenar)
- [Suvi Shahoyi](https://twitter.com/suuuvi99): Flutter, Dart, Java, C#, JavaScript, Figma, Adobe Xd
- [Hema Omer](https://github.com/h3ma209)
- [Hemn Ahmedi Kanigulzar](https://github.com/kanigulzar): Adobe Xd, Figma
- [Hezha Amen](https://twitter.com/hezhamen)
- [Muhammed K. Sabir](https://behance.net/mohamadkamal8)
- [Wali](https://github.com/kurdi-dev): Adobe Xd, Figma
- [Yaseen A. Yaseen](https://www.instagram.com/yasin.dev): Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Xd, Adobe Photoshop, InVision, Figma
- [Simin](https://twitter.com/SiminDev): Front-end, React, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Adobe Photoshop, Figma

## Cybersecurity

- [Adnan Anwar](https://twitter.com/AdanAnwar15)
- [Ayman Sabri](https://twitter.com/krdayman)
- [Chenar Ismael](https://github.com/TheChenar)
- [Sharo Karwan](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sharo-karwan-690b0576): Azure, Kaspersky, Acronis, Barracuda, Palo Alto
- [Muhammed Naqshabandi](https://twitter.com/zertux6)
- [Wali](https://github.com/kurdi-dev): Forcepoint, Infoblox, Palo Alto, Linux
- [Xaliss Pasha](https://twitter.com/XalissPasha)

## Networking

- [Ahmed Abdullah](https://github.com/Ahmad-Qadir): MikroTik, Cisco, FortiNet
- [Ahmed Jalal](https://twitter.com/EngAhmedJalal1)
- [Edris Muhammed](https://twitter.com/Edris__Muhammed)
- [Muhammmed Burhan](https://github.com/Muhammed-Burhan)
- [Muhamad Tariq](https://twitter.com/muhamadtariq01)
- [Othman A. Abdullah](https://twitter.com/Othman_Mzori)
- [Samal Samaly](https://twitter.com/Samalsamaly)

## Data Science and AI

- [Aza Kamala](https://twitter.com/AzaKamala)
- [Abdulbasit Zahir](https://twitter.com/Hamza_X98)
- [Diween Hawezy](https://twitter.com/DiweenHawezy)
- [Dolan](https://twitter.com/dolanskurd): Python
- [Ebdulmomen Ahmed](https://twitter.com/Ebdulmomen1)
- [Keyo Zêbarî](https://twitter.com/KeyoChali)
- [Layik Hama](https://twitter.com/layik)
- [Sina Ahmadi](https://twitter.com/sina_ahm)

## Project Management

- [Emir Muhammadzadeh](https://www.linkedin.com/in/muhammadzadeh)
- [Hakar Saber](https://twitter.com/HakarSaber)
- [Rawaz Salih](https://www.linkedin.com/in/rawazsalih): Agile, Scrum
- [Rebaz Omer](https://twitter.com/Randoz)

## Cloud Architecture and System Design

- [Arya Jemo](https://www.aryajemo.com)

## IT Management

- [Samrand Haji](https://linkedin.com/in/samrand96): Managing in Enterprise level of IT Operations and Projects, former; Software Developer, Cybersecurity Analyst, Cloud Architect.

## Graphic Designers

- Be the first to join!
